Essay on Bus Transportation

Infrastructure is a broad concept linked to every facet of the economy and human life. Accordingly, the list of associated issues is long. For any purposeful analysis of issues in infrastructure development to lead to an action-oriented way forward, it is necessary to narrow down the definition of infrastructure and associated issues. The term infrastructure has been used since 1927 to refer collectively to the roads, bridges, rail lines and similar public works that are required for an industrial economy to function. Transportation, communication, sewage, water and electric systems are all a part of infrastructure. These systems tend to be high-cost investments. In general, infrastructure is location-specific and cannot be moved from place to place.

After this surprising news it might also be a surprise that when building anything really, a bus can be useful. A bus is capable of a lot of things, for example moving objects and people. This comes in handy on a daily basis when you are working together in a team because you will often need to move objects and or people. A recent example is that Bas (the assigned bus master, a prestigious title (only if you are obsessed with buses)) Had to move the bus itself (yes this is also possible, I know right?!) to Leiden to get it fixed. This example also highlights an issue of buses; sometimes they break down. When a bus breaks down you often need a mechanic to fix the bus which can be expensive. One can try to fix the bus by him/her self, but that usually results in a more broken bus. Hence it may surprisingly be concluded that a bus works optimally when it is not broken, rather then broken.

A recent example of a non-broken bus in action is the trip made to studio 21 (if I remember correctly..) where Project MARCH was paid money to showcase their exoskeleton. An important question here is; was the bus truly necessary here? And the shocking answer is no. The exoskeleton can also be moved by public transport. The flight case in which it is contained has wheels, so some walking is fine, and fits nicely into a lift or train. Ironically, the only form of public transport which might cause a prolem, is the bus itself, as the doors might not be wide enough for the flight case. The tram might also be a problem but sssttt. 

The point is that is a bus is not really necessary. Sure it might be more comfortable and easier to move large objects large distances with a bus, but it can also be done without. A not so recent example of moving large objects large distances without a bus, is stone hedge. It made by moving large stones large distances and (for some stones) even lifting them up a couple a meters. If mankind was capable of this so long ago, why can't Project MARCH move from the dreamhall to RoboValley without a bus? I personally believe that this is a problem concerning both laziness and lack of willpower. We are so used to tools making our daily lives easier and more comfortable, that we no longer stop to wonder when a tool has gone too far. This leaves the people apathetic and indifferent. But it need not be this way! Do away with the bus, and move large objects large distances with noting but brute force! Be your cavemen self, be free. 

Wolf Nederpel 
I 
